# week 2 README.md file 

# exercise 2.2

1. Which feature appears to be under the highest level of purifying (negative) selection? How can you tell? 
exons. there are fewer enrichments as the snp allele frequency increases, demonstrating that SNPs in exons are being purified out of the human population.

2. Why do you think most features start out more enriched at lower MAFs and become more depleted as the MAF increases? 
I think there should always be more rare SNPs than common SNPs because it is very rare for a SNP (which always begins with an AF of 1/n) to be beneficial and thus trend in the direction of fixation. and how much of a polymorphism would an SNP be if it was > 0.5 AF; an SNP MAF above 50% in the population would technically usurp the reference sequence's current major allele frequency. When a new SNP is generated in the population it has an allele frequency of 1/n and since there are many new 1/n AF SNPs this explains why there is more enrichment in lower MAfs, and less enrichment in higher MAfs which only accepts those few beneficial SNPs.

3. Does the relative levels of enrichment/depletion of features with respect to each other make sense? Explain.
Absolutely. The only neutral slope or positve slope is the Other feature which is a region of the genome that excludes exons, introns, and cCREs. the difference between the feature's trends is based around how strictly natural selection acts on those genomic features. exons being the pride and joy of an organism have the clearest SNP depletion as MAFs increase, demonstrating that evolution weeds out most SNPs throughout the generations of the human population. cCREs are gene regulatorary elements including promoters, enhancers, silencers, and insulators. Intuitively, these have the second steepest slope indicating that SNPs are strongly selected against second only to exons for the genes in which they regulate. this is followed by introns, which have important roles for alternative slicing, encoding small RNA elements, and so on, but without as a direct contribution to the organism as exons or cCREs, it makes sense they take up the third steepest slope with fewer SNPs as MAF increases. now the outlier feature is the Other region. it goes without saying that natural selection does not have much of a say in what goes on in these Other genomic regions, which explains why SNPs enriched at high MAFs (are represented in the population more) than for the rest of the features. this explaination for the Other feature, however, struggles to explain why low MAF SNPs are less enriched; this is unexpected. 